## GCodeLib

This repo contains G-Code parsing and execution library. It's focused on providing common parsing utilities for different G-Code format parsers (e.g. supported by RepRap, LinuxCNC) and an abstract execution runtime for G-Code with imperative extensions (e.g. if's, loops, subroutines). It's not intented to strictly comply any existing G-Code standard or particular implementation. By now GCodeLib includes parser engines that are mostly compatible with G-Code dialects defined by LinuxCNC (including all control structures) and RepRap. All supported dialects are parsed into unified AST format which is compiled into simple stack-based virtual machine bytecode. GCodeLib provides abstract executor for that bytecode which is able to deal with all calculations and flow control, however it does not give any particular meaning to G-Code commands (G-, M- and others) and their parameters. Instead it collects commands with corresponding parameters and sequentially passes them to the library user. The main benefit of that behavior is that library user should not care about G-Code parsing and execution issues, he just receives plain stream of prepared commands with constant parameters. User is also able to configure runtime environment (if used G-Code dialect access to it) and directly access VM runtime.

The main motivation of the project is the lack of proper G-Code engine implementation for my mini-CNC. Currently repo does not contain any  usage examples (except for primitive CLI program `source/main.cpp` which just prints out G-Code, AST or bytecode). There are unit tests that cover runtime part of system.

#### Author & License
Author: Jevgēnijs Protopopovs \
License: project code is licensed under the terms of MIT license.